README.md, before:

# N4O Personal Blog

My personal blog where I yap about random stuff I found or did.

This blog has been rewritten too many times that I should actually start writing something:

1. Jekyll
2. Hugo
3. Next.js
4. Nuxt (You are here)

## Why?

Because it would be funny to rewrite this blog again.

## Features

- 🌙 Dark mode
- ⌨️ Markdown with a ton of plugins (thanks to nuxt/mdc)
- 🌐 Multilingual or i18n support (Mainly in Indonesian and English)
  - A nicer fallback page for when a certain posts not available in another languages
- 🤖 Monospaced-like font (using Monaspace Xenon for main font and Neon for code)
- 📏 Use variable font by default for better performance
- 🚀 Fast (arguably)
- 📜 SEO friendly (I hope)
- 📱 Mobile friendly (as friendly as I can make it)
- 📈 Proper sitemap and RSS feed
- 💬 Comment feature (via `giscus.app`)
- 📝 Draft-like feature so you don't publish your bad writing immediately

### Features that is "hardcoded"

- 📚 Literal.club support
  - Although you can change the username or just disable it by commenting the code
  - If you do change it, ensure that your profile is public
- 🎧 Spotify information
  - You can only manually disable this since it's hardcoded to my Spotify account (via external API in glitch)
- 👁️ Plausible/view count
  - This is hardcoded to my own self-hosted plausible instance, you can disable this by commenting the code

See [`nuxt.config.ts`](https://github.com/noaione/blog.n4o.xyz-rewrite/blob/master/nuxt.config.ts#L8) for more information.

## Development

You need `yarn` berry, not `yarn` classic, then install everything with:

```bash
yarn
```

Then run the development server with:

```bash
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:4500](http://localhost:4500) with your browser to see the result.

## Frontmatter

- `title` (required) [`string`]
- `author` (required, depends on `data/author.json`) [`string`]
- `date` (optional, but recommended) [`date-like`]
- `tags` (optional, can be empty array) [`string[]`]
- `lastmod` (optional) [`date-like`]
- `draft` (optional) [`boolean`]
- `description` (optional) [`string`]
- `image` (optional, if none provided fallback to default image) [`string`]

Here's an example of a post's frontmatter:

```yaml
---
title: Markdown
description: Halaman ini memiliki judul dan beberapa konten untuk demonstrasi markdown.
image: https://octodex.github.com/images/minion.png
date: 2021-01-01
draft: true
tags:
  - demo
  - testing
author: noaione
---
```

## License

All the content in this repository is licensed under [MIT License](LICENSE-MIT) with the exception of the content in the `content` folder which is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](LICENSE-CC-BY-NAI-4.0) with modification regarding about AI/ML usages.

Some other exception applied on the `mdplugins` folder that might be under different license, please verify each `package.json` file for more information.

### Font License

Monaspace Xenon and Neon font is created by GitHub Next and Lettermatic and licensed under [SIL Open Font License 1.1](https://github.com/githubnext/monaspace/blob/main/LICENSE).

Commit message:

feat: new social card images

README.md, after:

# N4O Personal Blog

My personal blog where I yap about random stuff I found or did.

This blog has been rewritten too many times that I should actually start writing something:

1. Jekyll
2. Hugo
3. Next.js
4. Nuxt (You are here)

## Why?

Because it would be funny to rewrite this blog again.

## Features

- 🌙 Dark mode
- ⌨️ Markdown with a ton of plugins (thanks to nuxt/mdc)
- 🌐 Multilingual or i18n support (Mainly in Indonesian and English)
  - A nicer fallback page for when a certain posts not available in another languages
- 🤖 Monospaced-like font (using Monaspace Xenon for main font and Neon for code)
- 📏 Use variable font by default for better performance
- 🚀 Fast (arguably)
- 📜 SEO friendly (I hope)
- 📱 Mobile friendly (as friendly as I can make it)
- 📈 Proper sitemap and RSS feed
- 💬 Comment feature (via `giscus.app`)
- 📝 Draft-like feature so you don't publish your bad writing immediately

### Features that is "hardcoded"

- 📚 Literal.club support
  - Although you can change the username or just disable it by commenting the code
  - If you do change it, ensure that your profile is public
- 🎧 Spotify information
  - You can only manually disable this since it's hardcoded to my Spotify account (via external API in glitch)
- 👁️ Plausible/view count
  - This is hardcoded to my own self-hosted plausible instance, you can disable this by commenting the code

See [`nuxt.config.ts`](https://github.com/noaione/blog.n4o.xyz-rewrite/blob/master/nuxt.config.ts#L8) for more information.

## Development

You need `yarn` berry, not `yarn` classic, then install everything with:

```bash
yarn
```

Then run the development server with:

```bash
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:4500](http://localhost:4500) with your browser to see the result.

## Frontmatter

- `title` (required) [`string`]
- `author` (required, depends on `data/author.json`) [`string`]
- `date` (optional, but recommended) [`date-like`]
- `tags` (optional, can be empty array) [`string[]`]
- `lastmod` (optional) [`date-like`]
- `draft` (optional) [`boolean`]
- `description` (optional) [`string`]
- `image` (optional, if none provided fallback to default image) [`string`]

Here's an example of a post's frontmatter:

```yaml
---
title: Markdown
description: Halaman ini memiliki judul dan beberapa konten untuk demonstrasi markdown.
image: https://octodex.github.com/images/minion.png
date: 2021-01-01
draft: true
tags:
  - demo
  - testing
author: noaione
---
```

## Credits

- [Monaspace Xenon](https://github.com/githubnext/monaspace) and [Neon](https://github.com/githubnext/monaspace) font by [GitHub Next](githubnext) and [Lettermatic](https://lettermatic.com/): [Repository](https://github.com/githubnext/monaspace)
- Social Card Background by [cbnt99](https://x.com/CBNT99): [Twitter/X](https://x.com/CBNT99/status/1458396816601337859)
  - Font used is [Monaspace Xenon](https://github.com/githubnext/monaspace) and [M PLUS Code 1](https://mplusfonts.github.io/)
- Rehype Twemoji is derived from [rehype-twemoji](https://github.com/nekochan0122/rehype-twemoji) by [nekochan0122](https://github.com/nekochan0122)
- Other contributors and libraries that I used in this project

## License

All the content in this repository is licensed under [MIT License](LICENSE-MIT) with the exception of the content in the `content` folder which is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](LICENSE-CC-BY-NAI-4.0) with modification regarding about AI/ML usages.

### Font License

Monaspace Xenon and Neon font is created by GitHub Next and Lettermatic and licensed under [SIL Open Font License 1.1](https://github.com/githubnext/monaspace/blob/main/LICENSE).
