---
title: "VTHell v3: From Scripts to Webserver"
description: "The Big™️ Rewrite of Old Code"
image: "/assets/images/whateven/ihaapidespair.png"
author:
  - noaione
tags:
  - coding
  - project
draft: true
---

After debating to myself for a while, I decided to rewrite VTHell, my VTuber archiving tools that I've been using and develop to automatically record a livestream and archive it.
I've decided to rewrite it in a webserver format for easier access.

:repo-card{username="noaione" repo="vthell"}

## Introduction

If you didn't know, I wrote this program around April 2020 and it was written in Python with separate scripts to handle different parts of the program.

It contains:

- Auto scheduler (using JSON format)
- A separate wrapper to download video
- A Twitcast downloader
- The actual scripts to handle the downloading.

There is some downfall to this approach as it's not very modular and actually makes this approach linux only (It utilize cron job and more).

After a while, I decided to finally rewrite it in a webserver format that user can access from URL and can control the program from there.

## The Plan is Simple

This rewrite target is being more modular, does not use linux only features, and more user friendly.

I also want it to be more consistent and less error since I hate when a stream failed to start recording because of reason and I dont know why.

So, here is the plan:

- Use Asyncio and Threading
- Use Sanic and utilize their task and signal feature
- Use the task feature to have a downloader task that will try to archive the video
- Utilize [ytarchive](https://github.com/Kethsar/ytarchive) since it support DASH manifest
- Create a Websocket server that user can connect to receive update more easily.
- Use task dispatcher so I can dispatch download to all pending jobs without needing to iterate one by one.
- Remake the chat downloader from VTHell v2.
- Expand the auto scheduler feature

:asciinema{url="https://asciinema.org/a/444816.cast"}
